# Enhanced Sub-GHz Chat

This is a plugin for the Flipper Zero that reimplements the Sub-GHz chat
feature that is available on the CLI. In addition it allows for basic
encryption of messages.

The plugin has been tested on the official firmware (version 0.87.0) and on
Unleashed (version unlshd-057). Due to limitations of the official firmware,
the behavior is slightly different there.

Currently the use of an external antenna is not supported.

## Warning

This plugin is in the early stages of development. It will inevitably have
bugs. You have been warned.

## Usage

Once opened the plugin will ask for a frequency to operate on which must be
entered in HZ.

On the next screen the plugin will ask for a password to derive the
cryptographic key from. If nothing (on Unleashed) or a single space (on OFW) is
entered, the encryption is disabled.

Finally the a message can be input. After the message is confirmed, the plugin
will switch to the chat view, where sent and received messages are displayed.
To view the chat view without entering a message, enter nothing (on Unleashed)
or a single space (on OFW). To go back to entering a message press the back
button.

In the chat view the keyboard can be locked by pressing and holding the OK
button for a few seconds. To unlock the keyboard again quickly press the back
button three times.

Pressing the back button when entering the frequency, the password or a message
will terminate the plugin.

## Interoperability

When encryption is disabled, the plugin can interoperate with the Sub-GHz chat
available on the Flipper's CLI. However, the CLI sends a sequence of escape
characters that are not interpreted by this plugin and will be displayed in the
chat view.

## Encryption

Messages are encrypted using 256 bit AES in GCM mode. Each message gets its own
random IV. On reception the tag generated by GCM is verified and the message
discarded if it doesn't match.

The key for the encryption is derived from the password by applying SHA-256 to
the password once.

Note that deriving the key with SHA-256 means that the security of your
messages depends entirely on the strength of the password. The plugin does not
use an elaborate key derivation function (KDF) to strengthen the password. A
weak passwords means weak encryption.

Furthermore, the key is the same among all participants. That means that each
user with the key can impersonate every other user.

The same key is used for all messages. This means that no forward-secrecy is
provided. If the key is compromised, all previous messages are compromised as
well.

If you do not understand the implications of the caveats mentioned here, do not
expect to gain any security by using encryption.

## Acknowledgements

The implementations of AES and GCM are taken directly from
https://github.com/mko-x/SharedAES-GCM. They were released to the public domain
by Markus Kosmal.
