### FAP (Flipper Application Package)

[fbt](./fbt.md) has support for building applications as FAP files. FAP are essentially .elf executables with extra metadata and resources bundled in.

FAPs are built with `firmware_extapps` (or `plugin_dist`) **`fbt`** targets.

To build your application as a FAP, just write it the way you'd do when creating a regular built-in application, and then set its *apptype* to FlipperAppType.EXTERNAL in your `application.fam` file. See [Application Manifests](./AppManifests.md) for more details. 

FAPs do not depend on being ran on a specific firmware version. Compatibility is determined by the FAP's metadata, which includes the  required [API version](#api-versioning).


## How Flipper runs an application from SD card

Flipper's MCU cannot run code directly from external storage, so it needs to be copied to RAM first. This is done by the App Loader application, which is responsible for loading the FAP from SD card, verifying its integrity and compatibility and copying it to RAM. 

Since FAP has to be loaded to RAM to be executed, the amount of RAM available for allocations from heap is reduced compared to running the same app from flash, as a part of firmware. Note that amount of occupied RAM is less than total FAP file size, since only code and data sections are allocated, and FAP file includes extra information only used at app load time.

Applications are built for a specific API version. It is a part of hardware target's definition and contains a major and minor version number. Application loader checks if the application's major API version matches firmware's major API version.

App loader allocates memory for the application and copies it to RAM, processing relocations and providing concrete addresses for imported symbols using the [symbol table](#symbol-table). Then it starts the application.


## API Versioning and Symbol Table

Not all parts of firmware are available for external applications. Subset of available functions and variables is defined in "api_symbols.csv" file, which is a part of firmware target definition in `firmware/targets/` directory. 

**`fbt`** uses semantic versioning for API versioning. Major version is incremented when there are breaking changes in the API, minor version is incremented when there are new features added. 

Breaking changes include:
- removal of a function or a global variable;
- changing the signature of a function.

API versioning is mostly automated by **`fbt`**. When rebuilding the firmware, **`fbt`** checks if there are any changes in the API exposed by headers gathered from `SDK_HEADERS`. If there are, it stops the build, adjusts API version and asks the user to go through the changes in .csv file. New entries are marked with "`?`" mark, and the user is supposed to change the mark to "`+`" for the entry to be exposed for FAPs, "`-`" for it to be unavailable.

**`fbt`** will not allow building a firmware until all "`?`" entries are changed to "`+`" or "`-`".

**NB:** **`fbt`** automatically manages the API version. The only case where manually incrementing the major API version is allowed (and required) is when existing "`+`" entries are to be changed to "`-`". 

### Symbol Table

Symbol table is a list of symbols exported by firmware and available for external applications. It is generated by **`fbt`** from the API symbols file and is used by the App Loader to resolve addresses of imported symbols. It is build as a part of the `fap_loader` application.

**`fbt`** also checks if all imported symbols are present in the symbol table. If there are any missing symbols, it will issue a warning listing them. Such application won't be able to run on the device until all requires symbols are provided in the symbol table.

## Debugging FAPs

**`fbt`** includes a script for gdb-py to provide debugging support for FAPs, `debug/flipperapps.py`. It is loaded in default debugging configurations by **`fbt`** and stock VSCode configurations.

With it, you can debug FAPs as if they were a part of main firmware - inspect variables, set breakpoints, step through the code, etc.
